Laptops -> SUpercomputers all have Von Neumann Architecture.
I/O devices talk to CPU using interrupts and to Memory using DMA.
Applications of 2 types - System Programs and 
System Programs - written by keeping in mind a specific processor and OS. Depend on kernel and processor. C libraries, compiler, linker, loader, etc
Other applications - gui, terminal, gedit, .... these go through the compiler!

cd /boot/
ls
the vmlinux-* file is the linux kernel code. This code is loaded by Boot Loader. This file is the Machine code!

The OS Runs means the Kernel runs

Error: file /vmlinz not found
error: you need to load the kernel first
This means that kernel was not found by the BOot loader. You have this problem in Ubuntu. The boot loader was configured incorrectly.

sudo update-grub
This will create the menu entry for grub boot loader. This will most probably fix the issue of error: kernel wasn't found.

We can even make changes in The config of boot loader, by pressing 'e' key on a option. We can see the configuration and then make changes in the file to be loaded.

The Ubuntu Loading Icon in the starting is also Application World!

apt-get source grub2
Downloads source code of grub

Machine code of grub is different from Machine code of a.out

Compiler is normally used to compile applications. Different compiler is needed for compiling BIOS. different tools(compiler) are needed to compile a compiler.

install-grub command installs grub on sector 0 of hard disk.

While Booting Computer, processor runs in Real Mode.

Applications can deal with hardware also sometimes. It's not that they always have to go through OS.

GNU/Linux - GNU people believe that linux won't work if there are no system programs. Linux is the name of the kernel. GNU is name of system programs, GUI, etc.

The Bootstrap Problem:
How to compile your program?
- Using a compiler (obviously!)
How to compile a compiler?
- Using the older version of the compiler?.
How was the first version of compiler compiled?
- Do not compile. Assemble it. Using an assembler.
How to assemble the first version of assembler?
- Do not assemble. Write it in machine language!

Boot-Strap problem - It's like writing compiler and compiling using a compiler. But how to write the first compiler?!

Debian people don't write shell, vi, etc. They make Systems work
Debian is the mother.
Ubuntu people copy Debian.

You need to score 100% in that quiz. Infinite attempts allowed.

SMP:
What does symmetric mean - access to the memory is symmetric.

Dual Core - Single CPU chip has 2 cpus.